Hey guys, I'm just dropping by to
leave a quick message. We had
some audio problems with this
week's show, so you might notice that
Artur's audio was a little
hissing, and my audio
had a bit of an echo at times.
Even so, we thought it was worth
publishing the show. It was a really
cool chat, so we hope you enjoy it. Let's get to this
week's show!
[Music]
Hello, welcome to Papo na Arena, the
weekly podcast where we recommend and
exchange ideas about content we've
read, listened to, and watched, always bringing a
product/PR discussion perspective. I'm
Artur, and I'm very happy that yesterday's course
was great. I'm... and if you're
happy, I'm happy too, my dear Artur. Wow, what a
nice atmosphere! Friendly vibe among
the brothers today, recording Sunday afternoon, that's it, right? The
most relaxed, good vibes.
So, in today's show, we're going to
talk about the following topics: culture, silos,
acquisition,
politics, the interview with the former
Twitter product manager on Len's podcast. So much
content, not just one piece of content, right?
Quite a lot for us to talk about.  But before
we get to that content, what do
we have for this week? I already
started by saying yesterday we had the
in-person workshop on critical and
analytical thinking, and wow, it was great! There was a lot of
exchange, a lot of networking, and of course,
a lot of hands-on work too. And the agenda is
full this month; we're going to have
two more courses, these will be online, but
spoiler alert: in the next edition of the
podcast, we'll reveal the date of the
next in-person course on
critical and analytical thinking. But for
this month, what we have is
next week, on May 11th, next Saturday, we'll have the
second class of the course for PMs
with me and Efren, and it will
also be happening there. And on May 18th, we have the
second edition of critical and
analytical thinking, but this one will also be online,
which is in two weekends. There
are still some registrations open, you'll see, this
week registrations will start popping up, because
people are people, you know?
So that's it, now let's go to the
agenda. Let's go!
[Music]
We're going to start today's program
with... today we only have one piece of
content, but I think...  This
generated so much discussion and so many conversations
among us here that we said, "Let
's delve deeper into this instead of talking
about various things." It's
Evon's interview, about his name, it's impossible, but
I think it's the Twitter product manager. He
was the founder of Periscope, which was
acquired by Twitter, and then became the product manager on
Len Rashid's podcast. It's
been a while since
we've featured Len's podcast content
here, so we're wrapping up
some time without bringing something,
and man, this podcast alone is worth
listening to in its entirety. I think it has a lot of
rich content. There were some points
I picked up here that I think we
wanted to discuss more, and Artur, I think,
brought up other things.
So I think the points that
caught my attention the most for us to talk
about are their strategy
to make Twitter grow again.
They were stagnant in terms of
active users, and what they did was
focus on the core of the product. And I think there's
a good discussion here about Brilliant
Basics, and about doing the
basics well, which Artur always talks about
here.  Versus that thing where you think
the next brilliant new feature
is what will make your
product grow again,
the second thing is the importance of
consuming products to gain that sense
of product, that product taste, right? So
he talks about that towards the end, like, "Man, what
I do is consume a lot of
products and test different things." I
think a big part of the reason we
do this podcast, the "
Product of the Week," is that, actually.
We like to test things, and we
think it helps in our daily lives, and
he brings that up too. And a third point, which
I think we talk about a lot here, is
when frameworks
hinder more than help. So he
specifically gives the case of Jobs
Biden at Twitter, and what I found very
interesting is when you, as a
leader, have to defend the use of a
framework pattern even if it's something
you don't believe in so much,
or that you're seeing doesn't work so
well. So, Artur, did you think of this program? I really
liked the episode, and it's
funny, isn't it? Twitter has been chaotic for a
long time, ever since,
people have always thought Twitter was chaotic,
after...  Ilon bought it. Dude, I've been on
Twitter since 2009. It's always been chaotic under
Jack's leadership; it was crazy.
Jack's first departure and his return have
always been a company that, like, you
looked at things there and it was complete
madness, right? There's even a
really good book—I've said in several
episodes that I don't like to
just read the theory in books, you know? I like to see
the behind-the-scenes stuff, etc. There's a book
that tells the behind-the-scenes story of
Twitter's creation, how the three founders
tried to undermine each other, the chaos
that always happened, and so on, but also
how the behavior changed, what
Twitter did to the world, you know, how it
really changed. It was a real change in
behavior and so on. But here's the
book recommendation; it's a super
simple read. The book is called "The
Twitter Breakout: An Adventure of Money, Power,
Friendship, and Betrayal." It sounds like a soap opera, right?
But anyway, it's almost a
soap opera. The book is almost a soap opera, but it's
based on real facts, and it's by Nick
Burton. So here's the book recommendation,
but going through the topics you mentioned, I'll start with the parts
you mentioned.  I think the
first thing, the "see versus" approach, is
building various things for the next
big thing that will actually make your product
grow. Twitter had
an interesting strategy,
of buying other companies and letting the
founders run the projects, running
the initiatives there, kind of like
intrapreneurs,
running things within the company. That strategy
was good, and I personally like
that strategy. We'll talk
a little more about it later, but the problem was
that it didn't clash with Twitter's own culture, the
politics of not
doing things, which ended up hindering things, or even when
it was taken to the extreme, like
when they bought
Periscope and Vine. Instead of saying,
and he even says this, instead of
joining forces and saying, "How do
we dominate this?", how did
each one go? There wasn't a
unified vision about live streaming, right? So I
think there's a very
interesting point about this, where he
says that Twitter has always been very good
at anticipating movements in the
social media market,
understanding long before that short videos
could be the future. He gives...  Other
examples of this kind of thing on Twitter,
and then you get into that thing about the
importance of execution, right? It's no use
having the right vision at the
right time if your execution isn't good
enough, like, because it won't
work, right? So you can have the
insight, have everything, be in the
right position to appropriate
it and take advantage, and still
not succeed because of
execution issues. Yes, and then other things... now
going to PR, actually it's a continuation of what
we're talking about. Another thing
he talked about a lot is how,
and we've already talked about this in
previous episodes, the role of leadership is to
repeat the
message endlessly, right? And he says
that this was one of the challenges on
Twitter at various times, how to
repeatedly say, "
This is the vision, this is the strategy," repeat the
message, how important it is, because
this happened. But this happened to the
middle management layer, but from middle
management down it didn't happen so much,
and even the people at the bottom
didn't buy into it as much. So the thing about
how to put it, precisely because of the
culture, the politics, and various
other factors, is how important it is.
I was thinking about how
important leadership is,
and how founders and management
can identify this as quickly as
possible, because it's no use...
well, at Twitter, neither the
founders nor I had this... they weren't on the
same page for a long time. But
if that doesn't happen at that
level, it will cascade into
broken things, things without direction,
things like that, taking away the weight and
taking away that
vision and strategy and everything
else. And then, in the end, it won't work, it
will fall into the execution trap, it won't
work properly. And within
Twitter, there was this thing he talks about a
lot, the Secret Chaos, the
things you couldn't change there, and
that's it... you can be telling a
story, have a great vision and all, but if
the people below aren't bought into it and aren't thinking, "
You're saying this,
but this is immutable on
Twitter, and it's 140 characters on Twitter, it's
immutable, this is a fundamental part
of the product," and today I think most people don't even
remember that it was 140 characters and that
the network continues to exist.  It
wasn't one of the things that causes
problems today in the use of Twitter; there are
several other things that do. But that's
not the main issue. And you look at the
past and you think, "Damn, they're going to
increase the number of characters and
completely change what this is," and it wo
n't, right? So the importance lies both in
communicating this vision well and in
questioning things that are often treated as, "
Oh, this is immutable, this ca
n't be changed, this is core and
will be like this because it's always been like this," and
no, that's the beauty of it.
Sometimes, for someone coming from outside, it's
possible to question, "Why do
n't we do this another way?" And
sometimes the very common answer is, "
Oh, because it's always been like this," there's really no
explanation. So let's try something else,
see what it is. And this is
a great power
for someone entering a new company, the
first few times until you start being
consumed by the day-to-day, right? To be
able to look at things from
another perspective, to zoom out, which
we always talk about in the episodes,
is a challenge for leadership as well,
always encouraging the team to do
this.  Zooming out is about questioning logic; there are
things that will be like this, but it's about
questioning the status quo, right? That's how it is,
but if you don't have that, the day-
to-day will
consume you. You might think it won't, but it
will, it definitely will. That's why
I'm saying that the
first 90 days are probably the
days when you can
zoom out as much as possible, right? And
later on, I think it's a
leadership challenge how to get
people to not go into zooming out
all the time, to have moments to
zoom out, even the leadership itself. What
you saw that was interesting in
this episode, man, something
I've done a lot and I really liked, was that
he talked about
building products from scratch, which is
very difficult if the whole team isn't on
the same page. And I was like, "And then
he talks a lot about how small teams
help with that, and so on," and I was remembering
some cases I took from
zero to one, and it was really cool, you
know, where we did the minimum, the
minimum number of people possible
together.
And man, everyone was giving their two cents
along with each other, but everyone was
building, you know? I remember when we
made the first version of iFood Pedal, man, it
was literally... (I even want to send
a shout-out to Janaína and the
professor who was the developer, we called him
professor) and man, it was literally the
three of us, me and two developers, we went there
and made the first version. I designed
the screens for the first version
and stuff, I don't know what, we went there and
man, in record time we put something
online to test and then
start evolving, and then it went
to a team and stuff. I
also remember when we made Voria
Online at IUSE, it was the same thing, it was
a very lean team, it was the
mobile team, man, full speed ahead, and man, we
put it online, then it was elected one of
the 50 best insurance solutions in the
world, and today, well, practically if you
do Voria Online, damn, we gave a little
push back there, you know? But man,
how is it that when the team is committed
to building things, it actually turns
out well, you know? It's that thing, there are a
lot of companies...  "You have a 'racat Tom' [a Brazilian slang term, possibly referring to a specific project or initiative],
and the thing that was
a five-sprint project comes out in a
week, right? That's the power of engagement there,
and I think the organizational structure
itself, sometimes, you're giving your example, like, 'It
was me and two other devs,
plus one other person,' and man, sometimes in zero-
to-one you don't have to start with a
gigantic team, a structured team, a squad,
no, sometimes you have to start small
to move forward, and you
have to start with the people who have the
right skills for it, right? And I think we,
as product people, even need to
have this knowledge,
because there are PMs who are very good at
zero-to-one, there are PMs who are very good
at the optimization phase, there are PMs who are
very good at scaling a
product, there are PMs who are very good at
expansion, and I think that sometimes
we, as product people, I think we
need to be very good at all things,
like in other professions it's much more
common. Like, I was talking to
my girlfriend this week, she's a
lawyer, right? And man, the lawyer..."  He's not an
expert in every aspect of
law, you know, just like
a PM isn't going to be good at everything in
product work, right? So how do
you fit the right people into the
right phase of the product? That's something that's
very fundamental to being able to
move forward. I'd say that's how you
identify that skill and
assemble the teams to do
it. It's a
very complex skill, right, because
it has many factors and can literally
be the success or failure of the whole thing.
So it's really very interesting.
And then, complementing that, another
thing in this zero-to-one line, I'm
going to do the "
zero-to-one" journey here, is the onboarding
of the first users, right? After
you put something live, and in the
episode he talks a lot about how
they went live with
the first
users, and one of them was COB, right? He
tells a really good story about Kobe Bright, man,
I would have been
terrified if he were in the same situation. He
says that Kobe jokes
around, he was doing onboarding for
Periscope and Kobe asks, "Who
wants to use this?"  This type of product, it kind of freezes up,
and then Kob
says, "I'm not kidding, man, it's
incredible, it would be a complete mess, man." And
I was also thinking about how
this, I think, falls into a basic part, right?
When we launch a product, at
a minimum, this product already has some
metrics so you can know from
day zero, from the first user,
what they are doing and what
they are not doing. And then, taking advantage of
what we were saying, when we did
the first version of V Story online,
some users were starting the
flow, but when it came time to send, they wouldn't send.
And we were tracking this with analytics,
and we had who
the users were. I was literally
calling these first users. And
then we discovered something that US
said, "It's because I'm doing it in my
garage, and there's no
Wi-Fi in my garage," we said in 2016. But then
the app couldn't send the photos, and
if he left the app, it crashed because it
was precisely so that he couldn't
upload the photos.  Okay, but man,
I'm absolutely certain that
if I hadn't talked
to users, we would have tried and thought of
500 other things, but I don't know if
we would have taken so long to arrive at this one. It
was so automatic. We started with
three users who didn't complete the
flow in the first two days, and the response
from all of them was the same, you know? Wow, we
did a quick fix! But
the importance of talking to the
first customers of that product is real. At
Docket, we've been doing this a lot
with our AI products that
we've been launching and building together
with customers. But how
fundamental is it? Sometimes a little thing that
seems very small, that went unnoticed by the
user, is super important if you don't
talk to them. And it's not about doing... I'm not
saying here to do
a mega Discovery, blah blah blah, no, I
'm talking about something as simple as: who were
the first users who used it? Get
in touch with them, then you can put together
a little script and stuff, I don't know what, but it's
easy to do, you know? It's possible to do, and
I'll tell you that Data Arthur will
tell you that...  90% of PMs neglect this
part. I'll tell you, especially since
we lived through many years where the term "
data-driven" was very popular, and
everyone wanted to be data-driven, and so on.
This pulled a lot towards a more
quantitative approach. This qualitative side brings
so much value and so much discovery,
sometimes in an easier way. It's what you
said, Car, you talked to five and three people,
and they said exactly the same thing. And
sometimes, when you want to be very
quantitative, you say, "Oh no, but I need to
see if this is something that 60% or
70% of people are having, I don't know what."
I think a rule of thumb that has
worked for me and I see working
over time is this: Car, if you
talk to 10 and 5 and 6 people tell you the
same thing, you don't need to talk to
1000, because that behavior
will repeat itself. Obviously, you're
making a good selection of
who you're talking to, but very
commonly the problems will
replicate themselves among people. So we
think that sometimes a data point,
which is almost anecdotal, is the same.  The idea that someone
speaking is less valuable or carries less
weight is actually not true, man.
Sometimes you'll get
much more out of it. Instead of talking to 50
people to hear the same thing from 30,
in 10 interviews, if I've seen five,
go for it, man. It's certainly quite
likely that this is something
important, something that's
really happening, right? Because
sometimes something is happening but
isn't important, but it's something that's
actually happening, you know? Not totally, man.
And so, we're
talking about zero to one here. Normally,
the quality of the first users is even more
important sometimes because you won't
naturally have quantity,
right? Of course, I don't know if you have a product like
Instagram, Facebook, etc., where you
release your test to 300 million,
but even so,
having this more qualitative perspective on the first users
will definitely give you an
absurd advantage in terms of reaction, the
ability to correct what
's not good and further improve what's already
working well. There's
also a recent podcast by Elen with the
people there.  Regarding the first round, they
recently launched the Product
Market Fit course, right? The pain point of the course was that
everyone talks about Product Market
Fit, but nobody brings a
structured, scientifically-minded approach to
achieving it. They said, "We've
seen so many cases that,
for this specific situation—in
their case, B2B—and we can
systematize this in this first-
round discussion." But...  That's right, isn't it? There's a text
that I think everyone who's
researched Product Market Fit has
come across, which is the
Super Human founder's text talking about
their process for PMF (Product Market Fit).
In short,
he listened to his users,
his first users, saying
what they liked and
disliked, and he based his work on that.
So that's the basic principle, right?
Especially when you're in that
zero-to-one phase, it's about listening, iterating, listening
again, iterating until you reach a point where, "
Oh, great, things are
actually moving forward now." And you mentioned
the number of test users, etc.
Jacob Newson has a rule: with five
users, you'll discover 80% of the
problems by talking to five. Of course,
don't take that literally. There are
many things that can interfere,
but it's better than nothing, right? So it's not
just us saying this.
And another thing he said, which we
've always talked about here,
is the "
Framework Hostage" part. This part, when he...  He
started talking, and I said, "Oh,
we talk about this a lot on the
podcast,
and man, for me, I don't even think we've
talked about this so much in so many
episodes that it makes sense to delve so deeply into it."
But for me, one of the things
he says is, "Look, if your company is
literally directing
your company's strategy, you're dependent on
putting it into a framework,
you're in deep trouble, and it's probably
going to go very wrong." Adding to that, the
other thing he talks about a lot
is the aspect of having to
balance what's important
for the company and what's important for the
user. And even though one thing depends
on the other, sometimes the balance will be
heavier on one side or the other.
And it's Iris, right? And I think
two things like that for me, picking up on
this point, is that it's very easy
sometimes when you're following a
framework, you're optimizing a metric too much,
you look at the number for the
number itself and don't look at what it means to be
reaching that number, you know what it
means not to be reaching it? And then sometimes you
make decisions that optimize a number
but are bad in the long run because they're
bad for...  Your user, because they're bad
for your business, so it's that thing where
you're just moving that
pointer, but what does that mean? What are you
doing to move that pointer? You
know? And the other thing I found interesting,
we talk a lot about this, right, about
Frameworks, but it was seeing someone bringing
this vision of a very
Framework-driven culture in a very
large company, you know, what he says, like
Job to Bid on Twitter, regardless of
what I think about Job to Bid, it wasn't
helping there, it was more injective than
actually helping, and he says, "Damn, I think
at the core of things it's really cool to
think about your user, right?" Job to Bid
is basically that, right? It's about
thinking about what your user is
trying to achieve with what they're
doing. He talks about how this isn't
common sense, how much you need a
Framework for this, and how much
fitting these things into the Framework
helps you or not. And then the point I
made at the beginning that I found
interesting is when you, as a
product leader, sometimes have to defend a
format, a Framework, a way of
working that you don't necessarily
believe in, you know, but because it's
company policy...  Do all teams
have to operate in this format, either because the
management above you believes that's how it has to be done? You
know, I personally have a lot of
freedom to work with my
teams the way I want, but I've
also had moments where I think, "
Damn, I think it's worth standardizing
everyone to make things easier," and so on. I think
the higher you climb the
career ladder, the more you want to make
your life easier, in the sense that if everyone
operated the same way, it would be much easier
for me. At the same time, for
example, sometimes a team
that's much more
experimental, doing a lot more
testing, needs to operate at a
different pace, in a process format, unlike a
team working on a
more established product. So,
you said it again, sometimes it's a balance
you have to strike: "Should I
process many things to make
life easier?" versus "Should I give too much
freedom and completely mess up
the day-to-day work of everyone else?" That's
it. And I think to
wrap up, this is a topic we also
talk about every now and then, which is the issue.
The PM should not only have to, but it
should be their obligation to test new
things, always testing and creating something. Something
he said reminded me a
lot of parachuting, like... here's
the link: Disney
Alert, what skydiving taught me
about product
management... The part where Lance
talks about muscle memory in
skydiving, we talk a lot about that right away.
You don't unlearn it,
you repeat it. That's why on the ground, before
jumping, we repeat the position
as if we were flying on the ground, and so on. So when you're in the
air,
your body remembers what you did, right?
And even if you go a while without jumping,
etc., making another analogy, it's like
riding a bicycle, you don't
unlearn it, etc. But he talks a lot about
that, right? You have to be testing, you have to see what's happening, you have to be aware of what's going on, you have to be
tuned in to the market, you have to be paying attention
because that's it, you keep training, you keep
training, you're creating your
muscle memory, and I think...  That's the
perfect hook for us to move on to the next
segment, which is our "Product of the
Week" segment. It's not really a "Product of the
Week" segment, but rather we're practicing
our use of different products and
seeing what other people are using to
inspire us. So,
Artur, what's your product this
week? We're going to take a
break from comments because we're
recording this episode on Sunday, but
normally we record it on Monday,
so we won't have many "Product of the
Week" this week. Listeners haven't
had time to send us any, but they've had time to
use them. But let's go, man. My
product of the week is WhatsApp. It's an
unknown product, right, Senator?
Remember that when we started
this segment, we always said that it
wasn't just new apps, it was apps
that had problems, you know?
The product you used
could be something physical, or
something digital, or even a phygital, I do
n't know what... I really hate
the word "F," I hate that word too, it's a very
bad word. But let's go, man...
WhatsApp, because it's incredible how
many things you can do with it.
The app can be used to simply
chat with people, right? Look at all these
guys! And I know several
people who do ISM (Internet Service Management), you take
notes with yourself in the chat, with
yourself. We have a
group here, I even have a group here, I'll send a shout-out
to Bob, Laura, and my sweetheart. And we
have a fitness group, so
we put up polls from
Monday to Saturday asking who's
exercising. If you exercise four
times a week, check if you do something or
less, you pay for the round at the bar when
we go to the bar. But we use
WhatsApp for that. We could use
Jean Rats, which Nana and several other
people have already recommended here, but it can be
done through WhatsApp. Anyway, that's it.
Remember that we had a phase here on
the podcast—not a phase—when we were
talking a lot about super apps and stuff, and
we kept saying that WhatsApp
is the super app of the West, the
Brazilian super app, right? It's just another example of that. That's it.
We didn't
include it here, but there was a recent interview
with one of the VIPs from Metacritic
talking about how strong...  They're
using this strategy to make
WhatsApp a more used app in the
United States, you know? To help with
this strategy, Metacritic's wet dream
is for people to stop using
iMessage and start using either WhatsApp or
Facebook Messenger, right? Because now it's all
integrated there, Instagram Messenger, so it's about
migrating from the Apple ecosystem
to Metacritic's ecosystem, that's it, my
friend. What was your app of the week, man?
My app this week, my product this
week was Livelo, Livelo, I don't
know what it is, it's a product where you
accumulate points that you can then
send to airlines
or exchange at the Livelo shopping mall, but
my main use here is to accumulate
points to then send bonus points
to airlines, so to
travel, and specifically during the
week I used it with products. This
week I had a specific use case where
I had to buy a
backpack, and so I went to the mall, looked at the
backpack and liked it, but if I
bought it right there at the mall I wouldn't
get any extra benefits,
right? And I went to Livelo and saw that there were
points there if I bought on the
store's website that I was at.  Back then, buying didn't even have a
bonus; it was a one-for-
one deal, you know? R$1 for one point earned. But then I
bought it on the website using my phone and set it up
for in-store pickup. I was at the
mall, I went for a walk, had
lunch, and after a while I received an
email from Livelo and picked it up at the store. So I
wanted to share this because there are many
opportunities like this to earn
benefits and advantages that
we sometimes miss, and Livelo
has a lot of that. Especially
for those who want to get into the travel miles program,
it used to be better than it is
today. The market is worse than it was during
the pandemic, but it's totally worth
trying to understand a little more. For
those who want to understand miles, instead of
paying R$2,000 or R$3,000 for a course
to understand the bulk of it, the
card is only a part of what you'll
accumulate. The bulk of what you'll
accumulate is by buying things through Livelo.
So I just saved you R$2,000 here. That's
it. Seek knowledge
about this if you want, because that's the
bulk of accumulating miles.  Okay,
after this, you can sponsor one...
I'll send a link to someone who
works there to ask for PR. I'll ask for PR to
sponsor some
episodes here, and even though we have
little time, some listeners
sent us their products of the
week. What do we have this
week? Artur, what do we have this week?
César sent the SL. Paulo sent the Golf
BR app, he said, "Man, it's good, the
app solves problems." And Glauco
sent the Zona Azul app, he said, "Man, it's
bad but it's good at the same time, it's
simple and easy to use, it's useful. It's bad
having to pay to park on the street, right?
It's bad, but the app works and fulfills
its purpose." And I think that was it.
govbr only has one complaint: every now and
then, in the apps that have login via govbr, I
enter and then they are no longer logged in. Then it
says, "Do you want to log in with
biometrics?" Then it says, "Biometrics doesn't work." Then
you have to go there and put
your govbr login/password again to
enable biometrics. But apart from that, I think it's
super practical. Keep sending your
apps of the week, the products of the week
...  Just send us apps,
physical products too, you already talked about sneakers here, you already
talked about Out and other things, so send
us the things you're
using most in your
[Music]
week, so that's it, right? And we
forgot today at the beginning, it came back here
to the end, but in the next ones it will be there,
follow us, right? There's the News L, which
I saw around, there's the Brilliant Basics, which is
even coming out in almost every
episode, here's the title of the
newsletter,
uh... Follow us also on Instagram,
TikTok, Twitter, wherever you want @arthurClosek @x
@prArena share with your
friends, share it on social media
too, tag us in your Stories
when you listen to the
episode, that's it, we'll see you next week, next
week there's more, we'll
hear you around, show until next week, huh?
Thanks guys, thanks!